GasByGas System Scenario in Pseudocode and Story Form

Pseudocode

BEGIN GasByGasSystem

    // User Access
    User accesses interface via Web/Mobile App
    DISPLAY "Welcome to GasByGas"
    PROMPT User to register/login
    IF User not registered THEN
        PROMPT for registration details (NIC, Phone, Email, Address)
        VALIDATE unique identity (NIC/Phone/Email)
        IF identity already exists THEN
            DISPLAY "Registration failed. Duplicate identity."
        ELSE
            CREATE user account
            DISPLAY "Registration successful. Please log in."
        ENDIF
    ELSE
        VALIDATE login credentials
        IF invalid credentials THEN
            DISPLAY "Login failed. Try again."
        ELSE
            DISPLAY "Login successful."
        ENDIF
    ENDIF

    // Gas Request
    PROMPT User to select gas type and outlet
    CHECK outlet gas availability
    IF no scheduled delivery or stock depleted THEN
        DISPLAY "No gas available. Request denied."
    ELSE
        CREATE token with delivery date and pickup period (2 weeks tolerance)
        DISPLAY token details
        SEND SMS/Email notification for token confirmation
    ENDIF

    // Outlet Requesting Gas Cylinders
    Outlet manager logs in to the system
    PROMPT outlet manager to enter required gas cylinder quantity
    SUBMIT request to head office
    DISPLAY \"Request submitted successfully. Awaiting approval.\"

    // Head Office Allocates Cylinders to Outlets
    Head office logs in to the system
    VIEW pending requests from outlets
    EVALUATE each outlet's demand based on:
        Previous sales data
        Current stock levels
        Regional demand trends
    CALCULATE optimal allocation for each outlet
    APPROVE or REVISE requested quantities
    SCHEDULE deliveries and update system
    NOTIFY respective outlet managers

    // Gas Delivery Notification
    IF scheduled delivery confirmed by dispatch office THEN
        SEND SMS/Email notification to token holders:
            "Bring empty cylinder and payment by [date]"
        FOR each token holder
            PROMPT User to confirm empty cylinder handover
            IF User fails to confirm THEN
                NOTIFY outlet manager for reallocation
                Outlet manager reallocates gas and notifies via SMS/Email/Call
            ENDIF
        ENDFOR
    ENDIF

    // Day Before Delivery
    SEND SMS/Email reminder to token holders:
        "Collect gas cylinder tomorrow at [outlet]"

    // Industrial and Business Requests
    IF User is industrial/business THEN
        VALIDATE organization certification
        IF invalid certification THEN
            DISPLAY "Request denied. Invalid certification."
        ELSE
            PROCESS request under industrial category
        ENDIF
    ENDIF

    // Outlet Manager Functions
    Outlet manager logs in
    VIEW token details
    MARK requests as fulfilled upon receiving empties and payment
    UPDATE request status in the system

    // Head Office Functions
    Head office logs in
    VIEW outlet status and distribution data
    MONITOR and MANAGE gas supply chain

END GasByGasSystem

Story

GasByGas, a leading LP gas distributor in Sri Lanka, wanted to enhance its distribution services by introducing an online gas requesting and delivery system. The new system aimed to streamline gas distribution, ensure efficient tracking, and improve customer satisfaction.

User Access and Registration
It all begins when a customer opens the GasByGas interface on their web browser or mobile app. The welcoming screen invites them to log in or register. New users provide their NIC, phone number, email, and address for registration. The system verifies these details to prevent duplicate identities. Successful registration allows the user to log in and proceed; otherwise, they are prompted to correct any issues.

Requesting Gas
Once logged in, the customer selects the type of gas and their preferred outlet. The system checks the availability of gas at the selected outlet. If no scheduled delivery exists or the stock is depleted, a message informs the user that their request cannot be processed. Otherwise, the system generates a token with a delivery date and a two-week pickup tolerance. Token details are displayed, and a confirmation notification is sent via SMS or email.

Outlet Requesting Gas Cylinders from the Head Office
Outlet managers log in to the system to request gas cylinder stocks from the head office. They input the required quantities based on local demand, and the system records their request. Once submitted, the request is sent to the head office for review. The outlet manager receives a notification confirming the submission and is informed that the final allocation will be decided by the head office.

Determining the Quantity of Cylinders per Outlet
At the head office, staff log in to the system to review requests from all outlets. They evaluate each request by considering factors such as previous sales data, current stock levels at the head office, and regional demand trends. After assessing all requests, the staff revise or approve the requested quantities to optimize distribution across outlets. The final quantities are entered into the system, and delivery schedules are generated. Outlet managers are notified of the approved quantities and expected delivery times, enabling them to prepare for receiving the stock.

Notification and Delivery
When the dispatch office confirms a delivery schedule for an outlet, all token holders receive an SMS or email notification, reminding them to bring their empty cylinders and payment by a specified date. If a customer cannot meet this deadline, the outlet manager contacts them via SMS, email, or phone call to inform them about reallocation of the gas to another customer.

Industrial and Business Requests
GasByGas caters to industrial and business clients separately. These clients must register and validate their certification to ensure compliance. Upon successful validation, their gas requests are processed under a distinct category.

Outlet and Head Office Operations
Outlet managers use the system to verify tokens and customer details. They mark requests as fulfilled when empties and payments are received, updating the system accordingly. Meanwhile, the head office monitors the status of all outlets, managing the supply chain and ensuring smooth operations across the island.

Final Touches
A day before the scheduled delivery, all token holders receive a reminder to collect their gas cylinders. This proactive communication ensures timely pickups and efficient distribution. Security remains a top priority, safeguarding customer data and system integrity.
